Searchable snapshot blog (#1521)
opensearch-project/project-website: _posts/2023-04-18-searchable-snapshots.md

The following image demonstrates the creation of an index using a remote storage option, such as Amazon S3.

![Searchable Snapshots](/assets/media/blog-images/search_snap.png){: .img-fluid}

## Enabling searchable snapshot in OpenSearch

To enable searchable snapshots, reference the [instructions](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/tuning-your-cluster/availability-and-recovery/snapshots/searchable_snapshot/) in the OpenSearch documentation.

## Using a snapshot for search

> OpenSearch cluster nodes will retrieve data from a snapshot and then cache it to the node's local storage. You can then configure the amount of storage available for caching snapshot data, or use the system defaults which are based on predetermined logic. Any subsequent searches on the cached data is then served from the node's local storage, or cache, without the need to download the segment data again from the snapshot, which improves performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenSearch cluster nodes will retrieve data from a snapshot and then cache it to the node's local storage. You can then configure the amount of storage available for caching snapshot data or use the system defaults, which are based on predetermined logic. Any subsequent searches on the cached data are then served from the node's local storage, or cache, without the need to redownload the segment data from the snapshot, which improves performance.
```

> OpenSearch cluster nodes will retrieve data from a snapshot and then cache it to the node's local storage. You can then configure the amount of storage available for caching snapshot data, or use the system defaults which are based on predetermined logic. Any subsequent searches on the cached data is then served from the node's local storage, or cache, without the need to download the segment data again from the snapshot, which improves performance.

Reviewer: In the last sentence, if "cache" is just another name for "the node's local storage", then the commas are fine, but if we are referencing two separate things, then no commas.

> Whenever there is a search request on data in a snapshot that is not cached, the data is downloaded from the object-store of the snapshot. If a node's cache is full, OpenSearch will use the Least Recently Used (LRU) caching strategy, which will clear data segments from the cache to make room for new segments, clearing out the least recently used items first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a search request on data in an uncached snapshot, the data is downloaded from the object store of the snapshot. If a node's cache is full, OpenSearch will use the Least Recently Used (LRU) caching strategy, which clears data segments from the cache to make room for new segments, removing the least recently used items first.
```

## Performance

> When cached data is searched repeatedly, searchable snapshots provide a good level of search performance and throughout. The first access of the snapshot data is slow, but subsequent searches are comparable to regular OpenSearch cluster searches. Please note however that the ratio of cache size to the combined size of the searchable snapshot, along with the search pattern, will factor into performance. The more data the cache misses, the lower the overall performance of searchable snapshot will be. In the next section of this blog post, we cover the performance results from our benchmarks testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When cached data is searched repeatedly, searchable snapshots provide a good level of search performance and throughput. Performance is slow the first time the snapshot data is accessed, but subsequent searches are comparable in performance to regular OpenSearch cluster searches. Note, however, that the ratio of cache size to the combined size of the searchable snapshot, along with the search pattern, will factor into performance. The more data the cache misses, the lower the overall performance will be. In the next section, we cover the performance results of our benchmark testing.
```

> Note that any snapshots that are enabled for search cannot be deleted until the "searchable" flag on these snapshots is removed. Follow the snapshot [configuration steps]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/tuning-your-cluster/availability-and-recovery/snapshots/snapshot-restore/) in order to remove the snapshot from search.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that searchable snapshots cannot be deleted until the "searchable" flag on these snapshots is removed. Follow the snapshot [configuration steps]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/tuning-your-cluster/availability-and-recovery/snapshots/snapshot-restore/) in order to remove the flag.
```

<tbody>
<tr>
<td><strong>Normal Index</strong></td>
<td><strong>Searchable Snapshot</strong></td>
<td><strong>Searchable Snapshot (single segment)</strong></td>
<td><strong>UltraWarm</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Throughput (search ops/s)</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>min</td>
<td>0.45</td>
<td>0.05</td>
<td>0.05</td>
<td>0.05</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>mean</td>
<td>1.48</td>
<td>1.38</td>
<td>1.40</td>
<td>1.38</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>median</td>
<td>1.50</td>
<td>1.45</td>
<td>1.45</td>
<td>1.45</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>max</td>
<td>1.50</td>
<td>1.47</td>
<td>1.48</td>
<td>1.47</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Latency (ms)</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>p50</td>
<td>1,065.84</td>
<td>1,111.07</td>
<td>1,163.01</td>
<td>1,115.59</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>p90</td>
<td>1,099.68</td>
<td>1,162.98</td>
<td>1,304.18</td>
<td>1,228.05</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>p99</td>
<td>1,177.59</td>
<td>11,287.20</td>
<td>10,165.70</td>
<td>10,827.60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>p99.9</td>
<td>2,212.63</td>
<td>20,595.50</td>
<td>19,323.90</td>
<td>20,186.10</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>p100</td>
<td>2,212.72</td>
<td>20,596.00</td>
<td>19,324.00</td>
<td>20,186.40</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

> With OpenSearch 2.7, you now have the capability to search snapshots on your OpenSearch cluster with performance similar to UltraWarm. With this, you can search through less frequency accessed indices saved as snapshot without having to restore them on to the cluster beforehand. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With OpenSearch 2.7, you now have the ability to search OpenSearch cluster snapshots with performance similar to UltraWarm storage. With searchable snapshots, you can search through less frequently accessed indexes saved as snapshots without having to restore them to the cluster beforehand. 
```

## Things to consider

> There are a couple of caveats to keep in mind when using searchable snapshots:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are a couple of things to keep in mind when using searchable snapshots:
```

> - No prefetch logic: In absence of any prefetch algorithm, data is not fetched until there is an explicit search on the data segment. This will cause every initial search to be slow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- No prefetch logic: In the absence of any prefetch algorithm, data is not fetched until there is an explicit search on the data segment. This will cause every initial search to be slow.
```

> - When managing large searches on snapshots, other OpenSearch cluster activities like indexing may be slower.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When managing large snapshot searches, other OpenSearch cluster activities, like indexing, may be slower.
```

## Future enhancements

> Please look forward to the following future enhancements coming to searchable snapshots:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following are planned future enhancements to searchable snapshots:
```

1. Searching on a remote store index (mutable).
1. Intelligent prefetch.

> 1. Safeguards from long or large searches, avoiding impact on hot node activities.

Reviewer: Is "from" the right preposition here? Safeguards on?

> 1. Concurrent search to improve search performance.

Reviewer: The blog post needs a call to action that serves as a conclusion.

---
layout: post
title:  "Searchable snapshots are generally available in OpenSearch 2.7"
authors:
  - satnandi
date:   2023-04-27
categories:
  - technical-post

> meta_keywords: searchable snapshots, search data segment in snapshots, searchable snapshot index, OpenSearch 2.7

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
meta_keywords: searchable snapshots, search data in snapshots, searchable snapshot index, OpenSearch 2.7
```

Reviewer 3: @anasalkouz - Please change the meta back to this as the words are drawn from the text and how people search - not preference based. 

meta_keywords: searchable snapshots, **search data segment in snapshots**, searchable snapshot index, OpenSearch 2.7

> meta_description: In OpenSearch 2.7, you can now search snapshots locally on your OpenSearch cluster with performance similar to UltraWarm storage. With searchable snapshots, you can search through less frequently accessed indexes saved as snapshots without having to restore them to the cluster beforehand.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
meta_description: In OpenSearch 2.7, you can now search snapshots locally on your OpenSearch cluster with performance. With searchable snapshots, you can search through less frequently accessed indexes saved as snapshots without having to restore them to the cluster beforehand.
```

---

> The OpenSearch Project is excited to announce the general availability of searchable snapshots in OpenSearch. With searchable snapshots, you can search data segments within snapshots in remote repositories without first having to restore the index data to local storage. The relevant index data is retrieved on demand with the search request. Similarly to UltraWarm storage clusters, searchable snapshots use the OpenSearch cluster itself, caching data on local storage to improve the performance. For more information, see the [UltraWarm Storage documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/opensearch-service/latest/developerguide/ultrawarm.html). In this blog post, we will cover the design and implementation of searchable snapshots, their performance, and planned future enhancements. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The OpenSearch Project is excited to announce the general availability of searchable snapshots in OpenSearch. With searchable snapshots, you can search indexes that are stored as snapshots within a remote repositories in real time. without the need to restore the index data to local storage ahead of time. The relevant index data is retrieved on demand with the search request. Searchable snapshots caches data on local storage to improve the performance. In this blog post, we will cover the design and implementation of searchable snapshots, their performance, and planned future enhancements. 
```

> Before searchable snapshots, searching the data in remote snapshots required restoring the snapshots to the OpenSearch cluster node. Thus, in order to search snapshots, you had to expand your infrastructure with larger OpenSearch nodes. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before searchable snapshots, searching data within a snapshot required restoring the entire snapshot to the OpenSearch cluster node. Thus, you had to expand your infrastructure, which is costly and time-consuming. 
```

> The searchable snapshots feature caches frequently used data segments in cluster nodes, removing the least used data segments from the cluster nodes to make space for frequently used ones. The data segments downloaded from snapshots on block storage reside alongside the general indexes of the cluster nodes. As a result, the computing capacity of cluster nodes is shared between indexing, local search, and data segment search in a snapshot that resides in lower-cost object storage, like Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3). While cluster node resources are utilized much more efficiently, the large number of tasks results in slower snapshot searches. Additionally, the local storage of the node is used for caching the snapshot data. Therefore, you can search snapshots stored in lower-cost storage, like Amazon S3, with acceptable performance.

Reviewer 2: I think this need to be re-worded. I think we need only to explain the benefit of searching data stored in a snapshot with acceptable performance because of the caching mechanism that we introduced

The following image shows the creation of an index using a remote storage option, such as Amazon S3.

![Searchable Snapshots](/assets/media/blog-images/search_snap.png){: .img-fluid}

## Enabling searchable snapshots in OpenSearch

To enable searchable snapshots, reference the [instructions](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/tuning-your-cluster/availability-and-recovery/snapshots/searchable_snapshot/) in the OpenSearch documentation.

## Using a snapshot for search

> OpenSearch cluster nodes retrieve data from a snapshot and then cache it to the node's local storage. You can configure the amount of storage available for caching snapshot data or use the system defaults. Any subsequent searches on the cached data perform better because they are served from the node's local storage, or cache, without the need to redownload the segment data from the snapshot.

Reviewer 2: what is the system defaults?

Reviewer 4: Not sure. Removing.

> For a search request on data in an uncached snapshot, the data is downloaded from the snapshot's object store. If a node's cache is full, OpenSearch clears data segments from the cache using the Least Recently Used (LRU) caching strategy, removing the least recently used segments first.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For a search request on data in an uncached snapshot, the data is downloaded from the snapshot's object store. If a node's cache is full, OpenSearch clears data from the cache using the Least Recently Used (LRU) caching strategy..
```

## Performance

> When cached data is searched repeatedly, searchable snapshots provide consistent search performance and throughput. Performance is slow the first time the snapshot data is accessed, but subsequent searches are comparable in performance to regular OpenSearch cluster searches. Note, however, that the ratio of cache size to the combined size of the searchable snapshot, along with the search pattern, will factor into performance. The more data the cache misses, the lower the overall performance. In the next section, we cover the performance results of our benchmark testing.

Reviewer 2: I would re-word the whole paragraph with a summary of Searchable Snapshot performance. Some suggested content:
Comparing the performance of Searchable Snapshots queries and local index queries on the StackOverflow dataset, the initial run of Searchable Snapshots took approximately twice as long as local index. However, subsequent queries showed similar performance for both Searchable Snapshots and local index, as Searchable Snapshots leveraged the cached data.

Note that searchable snapshots cannot be deleted until the `searchable` flag on these snapshots is removed. Follow the snapshot [configuration steps]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/tuning-your-cluster/availability-and-recovery/snapshots/snapshot-restore/) in order to remove the flag.

## Benchmarks

> For the following benchmarks, the OpenSearch benchmark workload was configured with 0 warmup iterations so that the cache was not populated when the measurements started. The test aimed to achieve 1.5 operations per second. `search_clients` was configured to 16 to match the number of CPU cores on the hosts. For searchable snapshots, the test was performed immediately after creating the searchable snapshot index. For UltraWarm, the test was performed immediately after migrating the index to the warm tier so that the cache was minimally warmed in both test cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the following benchmarks, the OpenSearch benchmark workload was configured with 0 warmup iterations so that the cache was not populated when the measurements started. The test aimed to achieve 1.5 operations per second. `search_clients` was configured to 16 to match the number of CPU cores on the hosts. For searchable snapshots, the test was performed immediately after creating the searchable snapshot index.
```

> <table><colgroup><col /><col /><col /><col /><col /></colgroup>

Reviewer 5: I would recommend replacing the table below with the following. It's easier to use, markdown format, and puts things in the right locations

(Markdown code)

<div class="table-styler"></div>

|	| **Normal Index** | **Searchable Snapshot**   | **Searchable Snapshot (single segment)** | **UltraWarm** |
| **Throughput (search ops/s)**      |      |       |
| min | 0.45 | 0.0 | 0.05 | 0.05 |
| mean | 1.48 | 1.38 | 1.40 | 1.38 |
| median | 1.50 | 1.45 | 1.45 | 1.45 |
| max | 1.50 | 1.47 | 1.48 | 1.47 |
| **Latency (ms)** |	|	|
| p50 | 1,065.84 | 1,111.07 | 1,163.01 | 1,115.59 |
| p90 | 1,099.68 | 1,162.98 | 1,304.18 | 1,228.05 |
| p99 | 1,177.59 | 11,287.20 | 10,165.70 | 10,827.60 |
| p99.9 | 2,212.63 | 20,595.50 | 19,323.90 | 20,186.10 |
| p100 | 2,212.72 | 20,596.00 | 19,324.00 | 20,186.40 |

<tbody>
<tr>
<td><strong>Normal Index</strong></td>
<td><strong>Searchable Snapshot</strong></td>
<td><strong>Searchable Snapshot (single segment)</strong></td>

> <td><strong>UltraWarm</strong></td>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Throughput (search ops/s)</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>min</td>
<td>0.45</td>
<td>0.05</td>
<td>0.05</td>
<td>0.05</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>mean</td>
<td>1.48</td>
<td>1.38</td>
<td>1.40</td>
<td>1.38</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>median</td>
<td>1.50</td>
<td>1.45</td>
<td>1.45</td>
<td>1.45</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>max</td>
<td>1.50</td>
<td>1.47</td>
<td>1.48</td>
<td>1.47</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><strong>Latency (ms)</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>p50</td>
<td>1,065.84</td>
<td>1,111.07</td>
<td>1,163.01</td>
<td>1,115.59</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>p90</td>
<td>1,099.68</td>
<td>1,162.98</td>
<td>1,304.18</td>
<td>1,228.05</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>p99</td>
<td>1,177.59</td>
<td>11,287.20</td>
<td>10,165.70</td>
<td>10,827.60</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>p99.9</td>
<td>2,212.63</td>
<td>20,595.50</td>
<td>19,323.90</td>
<td>20,186.10</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>p100</td>
<td>2,212.72</td>
<td>20,596.00</td>
<td>19,324.00</td>
<td>20,186.40</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

> In OpenSearch 2.7, you can now search snapshots locally on your OpenSearch cluster with performance similar to UltraWarm storage. With searchable snapshots, you can search through less frequently accessed indexes saved as snapshots without having to restore them to the cluster beforehand. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In OpenSearch 2.7, you can now search snapshots locally on your OpenSearch cluster with performance. With searchable snapshots, you can search through less frequently accessed indexes saved as snapshots without having to restore them to the cluster beforehand. 
```

---
layout: post
title:  "Searchable Snapshots GA Release"
authors:
  - satish-nandi
date:   2023-04-18
categories:
  - technical-post
meta_keywords: opensearch, searchable snapshots, OpenSearch 2.7

> meta_description: The searchable snapshot feature incorporates technics like caching frequently used data segments in cluster nodes and removing the least used data segment from the cluster nodes in order to make space for frequency used data segments.

Author: done

---
layout: post
title:  "Searchable snapshots are generally available in OpenSearch 2.7"
authors:
  - satnandi
  - andrross
date:   2023-04-27
categories:
  - technical-post
meta_keywords: searchable snapshots, search data segment in snapshots, searchable snapshot index, OpenSearch 2.7
meta_description: In OpenSearch 2.7, you can now search snapshots locally on your OpenSearch cluster. With searchable snapshots, you can search through less frequently accessed indexes saved as snapshots without having to restore them to the cluster beforehand.
has_science_table: true
---

The OpenSearch Project is excited to announce the general availability of searchable snapshots in OpenSearch. With searchable snapshots, you can search indexes that are stored as snapshots within remote repositories in real time without the need to restore the index data to local storage ahead of time. The relevant index data is retrieved on demand with the search request. Searchable snapshots cache data on local storage to improve the performance. In this blog post, we will cover the design and implementation of searchable snapshots, their performance, and planned future enhancements. 

> 

Reviewer 6: @nandi-github Do you think some additional detail should be added here?

The following image shows the creation of an index using a remote storage option, such as Amazon S3.

![Searchable Snapshots](/assets/media/blog-images/2023-04-27-searchable-snapshots/searchable-snapshot.png){: .img-fluid}

## Enabling searchable snapshots in OpenSearch

To enable searchable snapshots, reference the [instructions](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/tuning-your-cluster/availability-and-recovery/snapshots/searchable_snapshot/) in the OpenSearch documentation.

## Performance

Comparing the performance of searchable snapshot queries and local index queries on the `stackoverflow` dataset, the initial run of searchable snapshots took approximately twice as long as the local index. However, subsequent queries showed similar performance for both searchable snapshots and local index because searchable snapshots used cached data. 

> The following table presents the time in seconds taken to scan approximately 36 million documents in the [`stackoverflow`](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/stackoverflow/stackoverflow) dataset using the Scroll API in a single-threaded test runner.

Reviewer 7: 1. why not publish the data for non-scroll standard search request based queries ?
2. Also do we need to talk about setup like a) host types used, b) number of hosts, c) number of shards per host, etc ? Same for benchmark section

Reviewer 7: > why not publish the data for non-scroll standard search request based queries ?

>> The benchmark section below shows data for the nyc_taxis workload

Was not clear from the benchmark section below. Thanks for adding the note to update it.

> Also do we need to talk about setup like a) host types used, b) number of hosts, c) number of shards per host, etc ? Same for benchmark section

>> I think the relative performance to the local index is what is important here. I'm not sure that adding more detail will be super helpful. What do you think?

First scan time can vary depending on the local disk type used in the setup (SSD vs HDD vs EBS) and the network bandwidth. Relative performance is fine but it may change with different setup like 1 active shard vs 10 active shards per node.

| | **Local index** | **Searchable snapshot** |
|:--- | --- | --- |
| First scan | 588 | 1233 |
| Repeat scan | 590 | 641 |

> Note that in order to delete a snapshot you must first delete all searchable snapshots created from that snapshot. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that in order to delete a snapshot you must first delete all searchable snapshot indices created from that snapshot. 
```

> Note that searchable snapshots cannot be deleted until the `searchable` flag on these snapshots is removed. Follow the snapshot [configuration steps](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/tuning-your-cluster/availability-and-recovery/snapshots/snapshot-restore/) in order to remove the flag.

Reviewer 7: I may be missing it somewhere but was unable to find the `searchable` flag being referred here in the linked doc or the searchable snapshot page. Would be better to clarify this

Reviewer 7: nit: ` all searchable snapshots must be created` --> ` all searchable snapshots created`

| p90 | 1,099.68 | 1,162.98 | 
| p99 | 1,177.59 | 11,287.20 | 
| p99.9 | 2,212.63 | 20,595.50 | 
| p100 | 2,212.72 | 20,596.00 | 

In OpenSearch 2.7, you can now search snapshots locally on your OpenSearch cluster. With searchable snapshots, you can search through less frequently accessed indexes saved as snapshots without having to restore them to the cluster beforehand. 

## When to use searchable snapshots

Use searchable snapshots with less frequently accessed data that is not sensitive to latency.

## Things to consider

Here are a couple of things to keep in mind when using searchable snapshots:

- No prefetch logic: In the absence of any prefetch algorithm, data is not fetched until there is an explicit search on the data segment. This will cause every initial search to be slow.
- When managing resource-intensive searches on snapshot data, other OpenSearch cluster activities, like indexing, may be slower.

## Future enhancements

The following are planned future enhancements to searchable snapshots:

1. Searching on a remote store index (mutable).
1. Intelligent prefetch.
1. Safeguards against long or large searches, avoiding impact on hot node activities.

> 1. Concurrent search to improve search performance.

Reviewer 7: IMO, none of these improvements are specific to searchable snapshots (except may be intelligent prefetch). So not sure if we need to mention it here ?

Reviewer 6: They aren't necessarily specific but they are related to the feature. Do you think it is confusing to list these things out here?

Reviewer 7: Yes as the blog is specifically around Searchable Snapshot. For example: `Searching on remote index` is a separate functionality in its own. `concurrent search` is applicable to any type of index.

Industries like legal practices and healthcare require data to be retained for set amounts of time. In this case, searchable snapshots can be a lightweight mechanism to search historical data stored in snapshots. When you need to search older data, you can restore its snapshot to the hot cluster to enable searching. With searchable snapshots, you can use the snapshot for searching with an expectation that the search is going to be slower.

## Things to consider

Here are a couple of things to keep in mind when using searchable snapshots:

- No prefetch logic: In the absence of any prefetch algorithm, data is not fetched until there is an explicit search on the data segment. This will cause every initial search to be slow.
- When managing resource-intensive searches on snapshot data, other OpenSearch cluster activities, like indexing, may be slower.

## Future enhancements

The following are planned future enhancements to searchable snapshots:

> 1. Searching on a remote store index (mutable).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Searching on a remote store index (mutable)
```

> 1. Intelligent prefetch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Intelligent prefetch
```

> 1. Safeguards against long or large searches, avoiding impact on hot node activities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Safeguards against long or large searches, avoiding impact on hot node activities
```

> 1. Concurrent search to improve search performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Concurrent search to improve search performance
```

## Using a snapshot for search

OpenSearch cluster nodes retrieve data from a snapshot and then cache it to the node's local storage. Any subsequent searches on the cached data perform better because they are served from the node's local storage, or cache, without the need to redownload the segment data from the snapshot.

For a search request on data in an uncached snapshot, the data is downloaded from the snapshot's object store. If a node's cache is full, OpenSearch clears data segments from the cache using the Least Recently Used (LRU) caching strategy.

> ## Performance

Reviewer 8: we need a "when to use Searchable Snapshot" section. I don't think we need a "when not to use" because its fairly obvious that its just the inverse of when to use. @nandi-github - please confirm. 
When to use:
"With less frequently accessed data which is not latency sensitive"

Reviewer 9: Agree, we can add "When to use searchable Snapshot" section.  I currently could not find "when not to use". If it does not exist, then it is only matter of adding the when to use.

> Comparing the performance of searchable snapshot queries and local index queries on the StackOverflow dataset, the initial run of Searchable Snapshots took approximately twice as long as local index. However, subsequent queries showed similar performance for both searchable snapshots and local index because searchable snapshots used cached data.

Reviewer 8: "took approximately twice as long" needs to be substantiated - this is the right data to do so, we should probably add to the benchmarking section: https://quip-amazon.com/5rEsA5Jg2ugP/Searchable-Snapshots-Performance-Testing#temp:C:CWL8e4748a55b854c22af4cfef1b

Reviewer 9: Agreed, lets add the section from the quip noted above. (Scan time)

Note that searchable snapshots cannot be deleted until the `searchable` flag on these snapshots is removed. Follow the snapshot [configuration steps]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/tuning-your-cluster/availability-and-recovery/snapshots/snapshot-restore/) in order to remove the flag.

## Benchmarks

For the following benchmarks, the OpenSearch benchmark workload was configured with 0 warmup iterations so that the cache was not populated when the measurements started. The test aimed to achieve 1.5 operations per second. `search_clients` was configured to 16 to match the number of CPU cores on the hosts. For searchable snapshots, the test was performed immediately after creating the searchable snapshot index. For UltraWarm, the test was performed immediately after migrating the index to the warm tier so that the cache was minimally warmed in both test cases.

> <table><colgroup><col /><col /><col /><col /><col /></colgroup>

Reviewer 8: The formatting is confusing to read. Can we add grid lines and make it more clear?

> | | Normal Index | Searchable Snapshot | Searchable Snapshot (single segment) | 

Reviewer 8: We can remove the "single segment" column as we don't cover that in the blog anywhere.

Reviewer 9: That should be fine, it reduces the confusion. Agreed

> | Throughput (search ops/s) | | 

Reviewer 8: The table is hard to read. Can we add grid lines and format more clearly the headers of each section "Throughput (search ops/s)" and "Latency (ms)"

Reviewer 4: Done

> | min | 0.45 | 0.0 | 0.05 | 

Reviewer 8: We shouldnt round the 0.0 to only one decimal. It should be 0.05 right?

Reviewer 4: Changed, thank you!
